# Library-management-System

The Library System is an application that maintains information about books and members in a library. It includes a class called Book with data members like title, author1, author2, publisher, yearPublication, isbn, accessionNum, and issuedTo. The LibrarySystem class has data members like booksList, membersList, booksListSize, membersListSize, and membersListSize. The class includes methods like constructor, addBook, deleteBook, addMember, searchBook, isEmptyBooksList, sizeBooksList, issueBook, returnBook, printBooksIssued, and isBookIssued. A class called LibraryMain is used to test all functionalities of the LibrarySystem. The main method is a menu-driven program using a switch statement. The library system is built using a LinkedList built-in class in Java.

#A short description for each project’s component.
- Authorization: In order to access the system and be fully interactive with it, users and customers need to authenticate the system. Where they must create an account with a unique username and a secure password. And then use them to sign in multiple times wanted. Once an account is created only the authenticator will be able to manage its accounts whenever needed like resetting the password, changing username, adding address, updating recovery email.
- User Features: The user for example can be the librarian, the user can add and delete books in system, categorize books, mark book the pages on the book.
- Customer Activities: is a component that shows what the customer can do while using the system. The customer can borrow any available book in the system, and he can return the book he borrowed before or on the due date, also he can buy the book as long as he knows the book ID. The book ID is required for every option the customer can do.
- System Database: A database is an organized collection of records or items that are logically linked together. The database is managed using a database is managed using a Database Management System (DBMS). Because all of the fundamental information about books is stored in a database, an integrated library management system is required.
